packages/website/content/docs/api/client-api-reference.mdx, before:

---
title: API Reference
---

import { AutoTypeTable } from 'fumadocs-typescript/ui';

## useAction hook

This page provides detailed information about the parameters, return values, and types for the `useAction` hook.

### Parameters

| Property  | Type                           | Description                                                                 |
| --------- | ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `action`  | `GeneratedActionHandler`       | An action created using the `createAction` function from `@vergestack/api`. |
| `options` | `UseActionOptions<OutputType>` | Optional configuration options for the useAction hook.                      |

### Return Value

The `useAction` hook returns an object with the following properties:

| Property       | Description                                                                     |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `isPending`    | A boolean indicating whether the asynchronous operation is in progress.         |
| `isSuccess`    | A boolean indicating whether the operation completed successfully.              |
| `isError`      | A boolean indicating whether the operation resulted in an error.                |
| `errors`       | An array of `ApiErrorWithMetadata` objects if the asynchronous operation fails. |
| `data`         | The data returned by the asynchronous operation.                                |
| `status`       | The HTTP status code of the response.                                           |
| `execute`      | A function to manually trigger the execution of the asynchronous operation.     |
| `executeForm`  | A function to execute the action with `FormData` input.                         |
| `getFormError` | A function to retrieve form-specific errors (useful for inline form errors).    |

## Types

### ApiResponse

```ts
type ApiResponse<T> = ApiResponseSuccess<T> | ApiResponseError;
```

### ApiResponseSuccess

<AutoTypeTable path="content/types.ts" name="ApiResponseSuccess" />

### ApiResponseError

<AutoTypeTable path="content/types.ts" name="ApiResponseError" />

### ApiError

<AutoTypeTable path="content/types.ts" name="ApiError" />

### ApiResponseErrorCodes

```ts file="responses.ts"
import { StatusCodes } from 'http-status-codes';

type ApiResponseErrorCodes =
  | StatusCodes.BAD_REQUEST
  | StatusCodes.NOT_FOUND
  | StatusCodes.FORBIDDEN
  | StatusCodes.UNAUTHORIZED
  | StatusCodes.INTERNAL_SERVER_ERROR;
```

For more information on how to use these types and properties, refer to the [Form Usage](./client-form-usage) and [Advanced Usage](./client-advanced-usage) guides.

Commit message:

update doc with new handlers object

packages/website/content/docs/api/client-api-reference.mdx, after:

---
title: API Reference
---

import { AutoTypeTable } from 'fumadocs-typescript/ui';

## useAction hook

This page provides detailed information about the parameters, return values, and types for the `useAction` hook.

### Parameters

| Property  | Type                           | Description                                                                 |
| --------- | ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `action`  | `GeneratedActionHandler`       | An action created using the `createAction` function from `@vergestack/api`. |
| `options` | `UseActionOptions<OutputType>` | Optional configuration options for the useAction hook.                      |

### Return Value

The `useAction` hook returns an object with the following properties:

| Property       | Description                                                                         |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `isPending`    | A boolean indicating whether the asynchronous operation is in progress.             |
| `isSuccess`    | A boolean indicating whether the operation completed successfully.                  |
| `isError`      | A boolean indicating whether the operation resulted in an error.                    |
| `errors`       | An array of `ApiErrorWithMetadata` objects if the asynchronous operation fails.     |
| `data`         | The data returned by the asynchronous operation.                                    |
| `status`       | The HTTP status code of the response.                                               |
| `execute`      | A function to manually trigger the execution of the asynchronous operation.         |
| `handlers`     | An object containing form action and onSubmit handlers for progressive enhancement. |
| `getFormError` | A function to retrieve form-specific errors (useful for inline form errors).        |

## Types

### ApiResponse

```ts
type ApiResponse<T> = ApiResponseSuccess<T> | ApiResponseError;
```

### ApiResponseSuccess

<AutoTypeTable path="content/types.ts" name="ApiResponseSuccess" />

### ApiResponseError

<AutoTypeTable path="content/types.ts" name="ApiResponseError" />

### ApiError

<AutoTypeTable path="content/types.ts" name="ApiError" />

### ApiResponseErrorCodes

```ts file="responses.ts"
import { StatusCodes } from 'http-status-codes';

type ApiResponseErrorCodes =
  | StatusCodes.BAD_REQUEST
  | StatusCodes.NOT_FOUND
  | StatusCodes.FORBIDDEN
  | StatusCodes.UNAUTHORIZED
  | StatusCodes.INTERNAL_SERVER_ERROR;
```

For more information on how to use these types and properties, refer to the [Form Usage](./client-form-usage) and [Advanced Usage](./client-advanced-usage) guides.
